Type: `oracle-classic`
Artifact BuilderId: `packer.oracle.classic`

The `oracle-classic` Packer builder is able to create custom images for use
with [Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Classic
Compute](https://cloud.oracle.com/compute-classic). The builder takes a base
image, runs any provisioning necessary on the base image after launching it,
and finally snapshots it creating a reusable custom image.

It is recommended that you familiarise yourself with the [Key Concepts and
Terminology](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/iaas-classic/compute-iaas-cloud/stcsg/getting-started-oracle-compute-cloud-service.html#GUID-6CB9D494-4F3C-4B78-BD03-127983FEC357)
prior to using this builder if you have not done so already.

The builder _does not_ manage images. Once it creates an image, it is up to you
to use it or delete it.

## Authorization

This builder authenticates API calls to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Classic
Compute using basic authentication (user name and password). To read more, see
the [authentication
documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/iaas/compute-iaas-cloud/stcsa/Authentication.html)

## Configuration Reference

There are many configuration options available for the `oracle-classic`
builder. This builder currently only works with the SSH communicator.

### Required

- `api_endpoint` (string) - This is your custom API endpoint for sending
  requests. Instructions for determining your API endpoint can be found
  [here](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/iaas/compute-iaas-cloud/stcsa/SendRequests.html)

- `dest_image_list` (string) - Where to save the machine image to once you've
  provisioned it. If the provided image list does not exist, Packer will
  create it.

- `identity_domain` (string) - This is your customer-specific identity domain
  as generated by Oracle. If you don't know what your identity domain is, ask
  your account administrator. For a little more information, see the Oracle
  [documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/get-started/subscriptions-cloud/ocuid/identity-domain-overview.html#GUID-7969F881-5F4D-443E-B86C-9044C8085B8A).

- `source_image_list` (string) - This is what image you want to use as your
  base image. See the
  [documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/iaas-classic/compute-iaas-cloud/stcsg/managing-machine-images.html#GUID-652E6797-A5B8-40A7-860F-F27FF3E42471)
  for more details. You may use either a public image list, or a private
  image list. To see what public image lists are available, you can use the
  CLI, as described
  [here](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/iaas/compute-iaas-cloud/stopc/image-lists-stclr-and-nmcli.html#GUID-DB7E75FE-F752-4FF7-AB70-3C8DCDFCA0FA)

- `source_image_list_entry` (string) - The entry identifying the machine
  image to use in the image list. Defaults to the latest available entry.

- `password` (string) - Your account password.

- `shape` (string) - The template that determines the number of CPUs, amount
  of memory, and other resources allocated to a newly created instance. For
  more information about shapes, see the documentation
  [here](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/iaas-classic/compute-iaas-cloud/stcsg/creating-instances.html#GUID-1DD0FA71-AC7B-461C-B8C1-14892725AA69).

- `username` (string) - Your account username.

### Optional

- `attributes` (string) - (string) - Attributes to apply when launching the
  instance. Note that you need to be careful about escaping characters due to
  the templates being JSON. It is often more convenient to use
  `attributes_file`, instead. You may only define either `attributes` or
  `attributes_file`, not both.

- `attributes_file` (string) - Path to a json file that will be used for the
  attributes when launching the instance. You may only define either
  `attributes` or `attributes_file`, not both.

- `image_description` (string) - a description for your destination image
  list. If you don't provide one, Packer will provide a generic description.

- `ssh_username` (string) - The username that Packer will use to SSH into the
  instance; required if using SSH. The default oracle user with sudo
  privileges is `opc`, so you may set `ssh_username` to `opc` if you have not
  yet configured users on your machine. If you have already configured users
  on your machine, you may prompt Packer to use one of those instead. For
  more detail, see the
  [documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/iaas/compute-iaas-cloud/stcsg/accessing-oracle-linux-instance-using-ssh.html).

- `image_name` (string) - The name to assign to the resulting custom image.

- `persistent_volume_size` (int) - Size in gigabytes of the persistent boot
  storage volume to build the image on. Use this if you want a bigger volume
  than what instance storage provides. Note that using this option puts the
  builder into a "persistent volume" mode, which is substantially different
  than the default snapshot mode. Please see the configuration section below
  for additional configuration options.

- `snapshot_timeout` (string) - How long to wait for a snapshot to be
  created. Expects a positive golang Time.Duration string, which is a
  sequence of decimal numbers and a unit suffix; valid suffixes are `ns`
  (nanoseconds), `us` (microseconds), `ms` (milliseconds), `s` (seconds), `m`
  (minutes), and `h` (hours). Examples of valid inputs: `100ms`, `250ms`,
  `1s`, `2.5s`, `2.5m`, `1m30s`. Example: `"snapshot_timeout": "15m"`.
  Default: `20m`.

### Persistent Volume Build

You will use this type of build if you've set the `persistent_volume_size`
option. If you need a bigger disk than what you normally get with instance
storage, you'll want to set this.

In the _persistent volume_ mode, things are built a little differently.
Normally, we launch an instance, then provision it and take a snapshot, which
becomes your machine image. This relies on the disk of the created instance
being large enough to perform your entire provisioning process. If that disk
size isn't sufficient, we can build with a persistent volume of arbitrary size.

First, we create a persistent volume of the requested size. This volume is
bootable and initialized with your image list. We start an instance with this
volume as the boot volume. After this instance launches, we provision and
terminate it, leaving the persistent volume around.

Next, we create a second instance, the "builder", this time booting from
instance storage. We also attach a new persistent volume, making it twice the
size of the original. We connect to this instance and copy the contents of the
first volume into a tarball file on the second volume. We then upload this file
to Object Storage Classic, and create a new machine image with it.

If this is set, a few more options become available.

- `builder_communicator` (communicator) - This represents an
  [`ssh communicator`](/packer/docs/communicators/ssh),
  and can be configured as such. If you use a different builder image, you
  may need to change the `ssh_username`, for example. That might look like
  this:

  ```json
  {
    "builders": [
      {
        "builder_communicator": {
          "ssh_username": "soandso"
        },
        "type": "oracle-classic"
      }
    ]
  }
  ```

  See below for more details on configuring this communicator.

- `builder_image_list` (string) - This is the image to use for the builder
  instance. This _must_ be a linux image, and Oracle Linux is recommended.
  Default: `/oracle/public/OL_7.2_UEKR4_x86_64`.

- `builder_image_list_entry` (string) - The entry identifying the machine
  image to use in the image list. If `builder_image_list` is unset, this
  defaults to `5`, which is a working image as of this time. Otherwise, it
  defaults to the latest entry. Set this to `0` to force it to use the latest
  entry when using the default `builder_image_list`.

- `builder_shape` (string) - The template that determines the number of CPUs,
  amount of memory, and other resources allocated to the builder instance.
  Default: `oc3`.

- `builder_upload_image_command` (string) - The command to run to upload the
  image to Object Storage Classic. This is for advanced users only, and you
  should consult the default in code to decide on the changes to make. For
  most users the default should suffice. If you choose to write your own,
  this command is a template engine and can make use of the following
  variables: `{{ .Username }}`, `{{ .Password }}`, `{{ .AccountID }}`,
  `{{ .ImageFile }}`, and `{{ .SegmentPath }}`.

### Communicator Configuration

The `builder_communicator` has the following options:

#### Optional:

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Config struct in communicator/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `communicator` (string) - Packer currently supports three kinds of communicators:
  
  -   `none` - No communicator will be used. If this is set, most
      provisioners also can't be used.
  
  -   `ssh` - An SSH connection will be established to the machine. This
      is usually the default.
  
  -   `winrm` - A WinRM connection will be established.
  
  In addition to the above, some builders have custom communicators they
  can use. For example, the Docker builder has a "docker" communicator
  that uses `docker exec` and `docker cp` to execute scripts and copy
  files.

- `pause_before_connecting` (duration string | ex: "1h5m2s") - We recommend that you enable SSH or WinRM as the very last step in your
  guest's bootstrap script, but sometimes you may have a race condition
  where you need Packer to wait before attempting to connect to your
  guest.
  
  If you end up in this situation, you can use the template option
  `pause_before_connecting`. By default, there is no pause. For example if
  you set `pause_before_connecting` to `10m` Packer will check whether it
  can connect, as normal. But once a connection attempt is successful, it
  will disconnect and then wait 10 minutes before connecting to the guest
  and beginning provisioning.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Config struct in communicator/config.go; -->


<!-- Code generated from the comments of the SSH struct in communicator/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `ssh_host` (string) - The address to SSH to. This usually is automatically configured by the
  builder.

- `ssh_port` (int) - The port to connect to SSH. This defaults to `22`.

- `ssh_username` (string) - The username to connect to SSH with. Required if using SSH.

- `ssh_password` (string) - A plaintext password to use to authenticate with SSH.

- `ssh_ciphers` ([]string) - This overrides the value of ciphers supported by default by Golang.
  The default value is [
    "aes128-gcm@openssh.com",
    "chacha20-poly1305@openssh.com",
    "aes128-ctr", "aes192-ctr", "aes256-ctr",
  ]
  
  Valid options for ciphers include:
  "aes128-ctr", "aes192-ctr", "aes256-ctr", "aes128-gcm@openssh.com",
  "chacha20-poly1305@openssh.com",
  "arcfour256", "arcfour128", "arcfour", "aes128-cbc", "3des-cbc",

- `ssh_clear_authorized_keys` (bool) - If true, Packer will attempt to remove its temporary key from
  `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` and `/root/.ssh/authorized_keys`. This is a
  mostly cosmetic option, since Packer will delete the temporary private
  key from the host system regardless of whether this is set to true
  (unless the user has set the `-debug` flag). Defaults to "false";
  currently only works on guests with `sed` installed.

- `ssh_key_exchange_algorithms` ([]string) - If set, Packer will override the value of key exchange (kex) algorithms
  supported by default by Golang. Acceptable values include:
  "curve25519-sha256@libssh.org", "ecdh-sha2-nistp256",
  "ecdh-sha2-nistp384", "ecdh-sha2-nistp521",
  "diffie-hellman-group14-sha1", and "diffie-hellman-group1-sha1".

- `ssh_certificate_file` (string) - Path to user certificate used to authenticate with SSH.
  The `~` can be used in path and will be expanded to the
  home directory of current user.

- `ssh_pty` (bool) - If `true`, a PTY will be requested for the SSH connection. This defaults
  to `false`.

- `ssh_timeout` (duration string | ex: "1h5m2s") - The time to wait for SSH to become available. Packer uses this to
  determine when the machine has booted so this is usually quite long.
  Example value: `10m`.
  This defaults to `5m`, unless `ssh_handshake_attempts` is set.

- `ssh_disable_agent_forwarding` (bool) - If true, SSH agent forwarding will be disabled. Defaults to `false`.

- `ssh_handshake_attempts` (int) - The number of handshakes to attempt with SSH once it can connect.
  This defaults to `10`, unless a `ssh_timeout` is set.

- `ssh_bastion_host` (string) - A bastion host to use for the actual SSH connection.

- `ssh_bastion_port` (int) - The port of the bastion host. Defaults to `22`.

- `ssh_bastion_agent_auth` (bool) - If `true`, the local SSH agent will be used to authenticate with the
  bastion host. Defaults to `false`.

- `ssh_bastion_username` (string) - The username to connect to the bastion host.

- `ssh_bastion_password` (string) - The password to use to authenticate with the bastion host.

- `ssh_bastion_interactive` (bool) - If `true`, the keyboard-interactive used to authenticate with bastion host.

- `ssh_bastion_private_key_file` (string) - Path to a PEM encoded private key file to use to authenticate with the
  bastion host. The `~` can be used in path and will be expanded to the
  home directory of current user.

- `ssh_bastion_certificate_file` (string) - Path to user certificate used to authenticate with bastion host.
  The `~` can be used in path and will be expanded to the
  home directory of current user.

- `ssh_file_transfer_method` (string) - `scp` or `sftp` - How to transfer files, Secure copy (default) or SSH
  File Transfer Protocol.
  
  **NOTE**: Guests using Windows with Win32-OpenSSH v9.1.0.0p1-Beta, scp
  (the default protocol for copying data) returns a a non-zero error code since the MOTW
  cannot be set, which cause any file transfer to fail. As a workaround you can override the transfer protocol
  with SFTP instead `ssh_file_transfer_protocol = "sftp"`.

- `ssh_proxy_host` (string) - A SOCKS proxy host to use for SSH connection

- `ssh_proxy_port` (int) - A port of the SOCKS proxy. Defaults to `1080`.

- `ssh_proxy_username` (string) - The optional username to authenticate with the proxy server.

- `ssh_proxy_password` (string) - The optional password to use to authenticate with the proxy server.

- `ssh_keep_alive_interval` (duration string | ex: "1h5m2s") - How often to send "keep alive" messages to the server. Set to a negative
  value (`-1s`) to disable. Example value: `10s`. Defaults to `5s`.

- `ssh_read_write_timeout` (duration string | ex: "1h5m2s") - The amount of time to wait for a remote command to end. This might be
  useful if, for example, packer hangs on a connection after a reboot.
  Example: `5m`. Disabled by default.

- `ssh_remote_tunnels` ([]string) - 

- `ssh_local_tunnels` ([]string) - 

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the SSH struct in communicator/config.go; -->


- `ssh_private_key_file` (string) - Path to a PEM encoded private key file to use to authenticate with SSH.
  The `~` can be used in path and will be expanded to the home directory
  of current user.


## Basic Example

Here is a basic example. Note that account specific configuration has been
obfuscated; you will need to add a working `username`, `password`,
`identity_domain`, and `api_endpoint` in order for the example to work.

**HCL2**

```hcl
locals { timestamp = regex_replace(timestamp(), "[- TZ:]", "") }

source "oracle-classic" "basic" {
  api_endpoint      = "https://api-###.compute.###.oraclecloud.com/"
  attributes        = "{\"userdata\": {\"pre-bootstrap\": {\"script\": [\"...\"]}}}"
  dest_image_list   = "Packer_Builder_Test_List"
  identity_domain   = "#######"
  image_name        = "Packer_Builder_Test_${local.timestamp}"
  password          = "supersecretpasswordhere"
  shape             = "oc3"
  source_image_list = "/oracle/public/OL_7.2_UEKR4_x86_64"
  username          = "myuser@myaccount.com"
}

build {
  sources = ["source.oracle-classic.basic"]

  provisioner "shell" {
    inline = ["echo hello"]
  }

}
```

**JSON**

```json
{
  "builders": [
    {
      "type": "oracle-classic",
      "username": "myuser@myaccount.com",
      "password": "supersecretpasswordhere",
      "identity_domain": "#######",
      "api_endpoint": "https://api-###.compute.###.oraclecloud.com/",
      "source_image_list": "/oracle/public/OL_7.2_UEKR4_x86_64",
      "shape": "oc3",
      "image_name": "Packer_Builder_Test_{{timestamp}}",
      "attributes": "{\"userdata\": {\"pre-bootstrap\": {\"script\": [\"...\"]}}}",
      "dest_image_list": "Packer_Builder_Test_List"
    }
  ],
  "provisioners": [
    {
      "type": "shell",
      "inline": ["echo hello"]
    }
  ]
}
```



## Basic Example -- Windows

Attributes file is optional for connecting via ssh, but required for winrm.

The following file contains the bare minimum necessary to get winRM working;
you have to give it the password to give to the "Administrator" user, which
will be the one winrm connects to. You must also whitelist your computer to
connect via winRM -- the empty braces below whitelist any computer to access
winRM but you can make it more secure by only allowing your build machine
access. See the
[docs](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/iaas/compute-iaas-cloud/stcsg/automating-instance-initialization-using-opc-init.html#GUID-A0A107D6-3B38-47F4-8FC8-96D50D99379B)
for more details on how to define a trusted host.

Save this file as `windows_attributes.json`:

```json
{
  "userdata": {
    "administrator_password": "password",
    "winrm": {}
  }
}
```

Following is a minimal but working Packer config that references this
attributes file:

**HCL2**

```hcl

variable "opc_api_endpoint" {
  type    = string
  default = "${env("OPC_ENDPOINT")}"
}

variable "opc_identity_domain" {
  type    = string
  default = "${env("OPC_IDENTITY_DOMAIN")}"
}

variable "opc_password" {
  type    = string
  default = "${env("OPC_PASSWORD")}"
}

variable "opc_username" {
  type    = string
  default = "${env("OPC_USERNAME")}"
}

locals { timestamp = regex_replace(timestamp(), "[- TZ:]", "") }

source "oracle-classic" "windows_attrs" {
  api_endpoint      = "${var.opc_api_endpoint}"
  attributes_file   = "./windows_attributes.json"
  communicator      = "winrm"
  dest_image_list   = "Packer_Windows_Demo"
  identity_domain   = "${var.opc_identity_domain}"
  image_name        = "Packer_Windows_Demo_${local.timestamp}"
  password          = "${var.opc_password}"
  shape             = "oc3"
  source_image_list = "/Compute-${var.opc_identity_domain}/${var.opc_username}/Microsoft_Windows_Server_2012_R2-17.3.6-20170930-124649"
  username          = "${var.opc_username}"
  winrm_password    = "password"
  winrm_username    = "Administrator"
}

build {
  sources = ["source.oracle-classic.windows_attrs"]

  provisioner "powershell" {
    inline = "Write-Output(\"HELLO WORLD\")"
  }

}

```

**JSON**

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "opc_username": "{{ env `OPC_USERNAME`}}",
    "opc_password": "{{ env `OPC_PASSWORD`}}",
    "opc_identity_domain": "{{env `OPC_IDENTITY_DOMAIN`}}",
    "opc_api_endpoint": "{{ env `OPC_ENDPOINT`}}"
  },
  "builders": [
    {
      "type": "oracle-classic",
      "username": "{{ user `opc_username`}}",
      "password": "{{ user `opc_password`}}",
      "identity_domain": "{{ user `opc_identity_domain`}}",
      "api_endpoint": "{{ user `opc_api_endpoint`}}",
      "source_image_list": "/Compute-{{ user `opc_identity_domain` }}/{{ user `opc_username`}}/Microsoft_Windows_Server_2012_R2-17.3.6-20170930-124649",
      "attributes_file": "./windows_attributes.json",
      "shape": "oc3",
      "image_name": "Packer_Windows_Demo_{{timestamp}}",
      "dest_image_list": "Packer_Windows_Demo",
      "communicator": "winrm",
      "winrm_username": "Administrator",
      "winrm_password": "password"
    }
  ],
  "provisioners": [
    {
      "type": "powershell",
      "inline": "Write-Output(\"HELLO WORLD\")"
    }
  ]
}
```


## Persistent Volume Example

Here is an example using a persistent volume. Note the `persistent_volume_size`
setting.

**HCL2**

```hcl

variable "opc_api_endpoint" {
  type    = string
  default = "${env("OPC_ENDPOINT")}"
}

variable "opc_identity_domain" {
  type    = string
  default = "${env("OPC_IDENTITY_DOMAIN")}"
}

variable "opc_password" {
  type    = string
  default = "${env("OPC_PASSWORD")}"
}

variable "opc_username" {
  type    = string
  default = "${env("OPC_USERNAME")}"
}

locals { timestamp = regex_replace(timestamp(), "[- TZ:]", "") }

source "oracle-classic" "persistent" {
  api_endpoint           = "${var.opc_api_endpoint}"
  dest_image_list        = "Packer_Builder_Test_List"
  identity_domain        = "${var.opc_identity_domain}"
  image_name             = "Packer_Builder_Test_${local.timestamp}"
  password               = "${var.opc_password}"
  persistent_volume_size = 15
  shape                  = "oc3"
  source_image_list      = "/oracle/public/OL_7.2_UEKR4_x86_64"
  ssh_username           = "opc"
  username               = "${var.opc_username}"
}

build {
  sources = ["source.oracle-classic.persistent"]

  provisioner "shell" {
    inline = ["echo hello"]
  }

}

```

**JSON**

```json
{
  "variables": {
    "opc_username": "{{ env `OPC_USERNAME`}}",
    "opc_password": "{{ env `OPC_PASSWORD`}}",
    "opc_identity_domain": "{{env `OPC_IDENTITY_DOMAIN`}}",
    "opc_api_endpoint": "{{ env `OPC_ENDPOINT`}}"
  },
  "builders": [
    {
      "type": "oracle-classic",
      "username": "{{ user `opc_username`}}",
      "password": "{{ user `opc_password`}}",
      "identity_domain": "{{ user `opc_identity_domain`}}",
      "api_endpoint": "{{ user `opc_api_endpoint`}}",
      "source_image_list": "/oracle/public/OL_7.2_UEKR4_x86_64",
      "persistent_volume_size": 15,
      "image_name": "Packer_Builder_Test_{{timestamp}}",
      "dest_image_list": "Packer_Builder_Test_List",
      "ssh_username": "opc",
      "shape": "oc3"
    }
  ],
  "provisioners": [
    {
      "type": "shell",
      "inline": ["echo hello"]
    }
  ]
}
```
